---
layout: post
title: "DEFINE framework"
subtitle: "Summary of 'Leading projects' by Daniel Stanton"
comments: true
categories: "team culture"
tags: "english"
---

# DIRECT

A project is an endeavor to create a unique product, service, or result. Usually made by multifunctional teams composed by the project sponsor, project manager and functional teams.

Project leadership can be simplified by using the DIRECT framework:
- Define
- Investigate
- Resolve
- Execute
- Change
- Transition

## Define

The project phase aims to define the problem or opportunity to be addressed. This looks basic, but a lot of projects are cancelled due to lack of objectives and have a clear project vision is the key to avoid Abilene paradox.

Her some questions must be addressed as:
- How do we know the project was successful?
- Why are we spending this money?
- Why is this project more important than other projects?
- Why shouldn't we cancel this project?

But it's hard to define the project vision when the problem isn't clear and there are some tools to help on it's identification
- Fishbone/Ishikawa diagram that is a graphical way to see problems and contributing factors;
- Five whys that is an iterative interrogative technique used to explore the cause-and-effect relationships underlying a particular problem.
- Brainstorming
    - Thinking in extremes
    - Remove constrains
    - Establish no criticism rule
- Project charter

## Investigate

Given the problem and the vision are well-defined, it's time to answer questions like:
- What are the approaches Enumerate and it's tradeoffs
- How much the project will cost
- How long it will take
- How well the problem will be solved

To help here, there are some tools as:
- SWOT analysis
    - Strenghts
    - Weaknesses
    - Opportunities
    - Treats
- Flow chart to see the process steps
- Swimlane to identify who's going to do each step
- RACI to categorize stakeholders as:
    - Responsibles
    - Accountables
    - Consulted
    - Informed
- SIPOC to look into the process like a supply chain
- NPV to compare approaches using financial benefits
- ROI

## Resolve

Decide firmly into a course of action with a project plan. 
The project plan is basically a model that describes what you are expecting to happen in the future, making it easier to manage and measure.

An accurate plan is needed to prevent unplanned work and rework.

Here some aspects must be considered:
- How the communication will work during the project
    - Ceremonies and it's objectives
    - How to communicate problems

## Execute


- During the execution, project leader have to focus on  
	- Communication  
		- The leader has to maintain the communication with and between the team members  
		- Set up the communications plan at the beginning is essential  
	- Metrics  
		-  Keep track of the project progress and it's performance
	- Issues  
		- Identify and solve issues  
		- Sometimes as the leader has authority to take actions or even only using their relationships and influence  

- Project kickoff  
	- Transition from planning to execution  
	- Everyone that will participate should be involved  
	- and the objectives can be  
		- Set the project goals  
		- Communicate the team structure  
		- Schedule  
		- Communication plans  
		- Scope change management process  
		- Issue resolution plan  
	- Why?  
		- Helps to create momentum  
		- Helps everyone to feel part of something special and that the work is important  
	- Tips  
		- Do the kickoff around food  
		- Gifts are usually good ways for helping on that  
			- Shirt or something wearable to help team to identify one another  
			- Create an identity around the initiative  
- Risks  
	- After the risks identification you can  
		- Accept  
		- Avoid  
		- Transfer the risk  
			- insurance  
		- Mitigate  

## Change

Projects will always have changes
Sometime people are introduced in projects during that phase
Here the leader has a key role, making sure the team accepts the changes

## Transition